
North Park
Wikipedia

North Park is a 3,075-acre county park in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, United States. It is the largest in the county's 12,000 acre network of nine distinct parks.

Completed in 1931, North Park is sited 15 miles northeast of downtown Pittsburgh in Hampton, McCandless, and Pine Townships. The park features the largest man-made body of water in the county, over 75 acres, bordered by four miles of woodlands. Its swimming pool was the largest in the United States & second largest in the entire World when it opened on July 5th 1937. It holds 2,225,000 gallons of water (compared to 20-30,000 gallons in a modern city swimming pool) and has enough room for 5,000 people to swim. The pool is 50m x 105m. 

The park also offers a golf course, large ice skating rink (completed in February 1961), movie theater, picnic groves, tennis courts, basketball courts, kayak rentals, a treetop obstacle course with zipline, and several miles of trails for walking, hiking, bike riding, and mountain biking--including trails for the visually impaired, known as the "Braille Trail". The Rachel Carson Trail runs through North Park, as well. North Park is also notable for their boathouse restaurant called "Over the Bar", which has a bicycle theme.

Rachel Carson Trail

The Rachel Carson Trail is a 35.7-mile hiking trail in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania in the United States. The trail stretches along a meandering path from Harrison Hills Park to North Park, crossing through a variety of dense woodlands, open meadows, streams, steep bluffs, power line clearings, as well as skirting the boundaries of local farms and suburban areas. There are no camps or shelters along the way, meaning the trail is intended for day-hiking. The trail contains hazardous terrain and is steep, rising 8,151 feet and dropping 8,214 feet. Few bridges have been built, causing hikers to cross waterways.

Because the trail passes close by the birthplace in Springdale of Rachel Carson, one of the early ecologists, the trail was dedicated in her name. Some offshoot spurs from the trail offer alternative routes to Hartwood Acres Park and the Rachel Carson Homestead.

Every year since 1996, the Rachel Carson Trails Conservancy hosts a "Rachel Carson Trail Challenge". Participants attempt a 34-mile long, one-day, sunrise to sunset endurance hike along the trail. The stated challenge is simply to finish the entire stretch before sunset, or approximately 15 hours. Two shorter challenge routes of 18 miles and 8 miles are offered, as well. The trail has also been part of the 100 Mile Quest, a challenge to hike 100 miles in one year.






















































































