

Color Theory Helps With Web Design

Copyright 2005 - 2013, Gremillion Consulting, Houston, Texas, USA

Research has shown that color plays a big part in whether a customer is drawn to buy from your website, so why not use color theory to help design your page? The colors you choose can make a difference in whether you attract internet users to your site or if they just want to close your page. Use color to your advantage and learn how color can affect the mood of your web page.

Using 3 to 5 colors on your website is the most pleasing choice when it comes to color theory. More than five colors can be distracting and lend to an unprofessional look. Start by choosing a background color. If you can not decide, choose white. White loads quicker than dark colors which will give you an advantage over those slow loading websites. Your main text color should be black since it is easiest to read. Headings and logos should be a contrasting or complimentary color. A second color may be used to add visual interest but is not necessary. A final contrast color can be used sparingly to help bring attention to specific items, links or text.

Two color theory choices that are often used when building web sites are complimentary colors and analogous colors. Complimentary colors are two colors found opposite each other on the color wheel. Blue and orange are on opposite sides as are red and green. Keep in mind the type of product or service you are trying to promote will help you decide on a choice of colors. If it is a holiday theme, think in holiday colors. If it is a camping site, your choice may be blues, browns and greens. Your logo or product may make a difference when deciding on which colors to use.

Analogous colors are adjoining colors in a color wheel. This usually means there will be just a slight variation in the colors. This combination gives a much softer appearance to the web page and is usually pleasing to the eye. When selecting the main color for your site, take into consideration the mood you want. Psychologists have shown that colors can influence our moods. When someone visits your website, an impression is made within seconds. Do you want your site to evoke happiness, dependability or power? Colors can make a difference. Blue is found to be the most used color on websites. Blue gives off the mood of strength and peace. Visitors may feel you are a dependable source. Red is a color of power and can grab the attention of your online visitors.

Keep in mind who is visiting your page when selecting colors from the color wheel. If it is young moms they may be drawn to pastel colors or if it is teen customers your after, then take a look at the latest fads before designing your site. Choosing the correct colors for your website can help make your site the best it can be. Using color theory to help select your websites colors can boost any web page.

How do you choose a color scheme for your web page? Most computer users will start with a basic color. If you have a logo you may want to use one of the existing colors within your logo. If you have a title or header already designed you can select a color from within this design. This will help blend your page together and can often give a more professional look to your site.

Using a color scheme selector can help you choose the right colors for your website and give you the look you are seeking. To use a color selector you will first need a basic color to start with. For an example, lets say that part of your logo is blue and you think a blue webpage will work well for your type of business. A selector will give you the option to choose a complementary color, analogic colors, monochromatic or contrasting, among others.

Orange is found to be a complementary color of blue. Several shades of blue and several of orange may be just what you are looking for when it comes to the perfect color scheme. Though you may feel satisfied with complementary colors, try another scheme just to see if it happens to work better for you. Often those designing their own website will start out using monochromatic colors, such as many shades of blue, and find that their pages are pleasing but that nothing stands out.

Changing to an analogic (base color, neighbor, and complementary) scheme may help solve this problem. With this selection you will have complementary colors along with a neighboring color such as blues, greens and orange shades. Use one of the these shades sparingly for added interest that will bring attention to the areas you want it. Remember that using neighboring colors (blue and green) will be a more subtle look than complementary colors (blue and orange).

Triadic color schemes are often used on childrens pages or websites that want a lot of contrast. The triadic scheme for blue would be blue, yellow and red. Using one main color on a larger amount of the page, perhaps the background, will help keep your web page design looking professional. Remember that too much contrast may be too much of a good thing.

Adding a bright color sparingly may be what you are after when you want something to stand out, such as a link or a specific word on your page. It is not recommended to type up all the text in a brightly contrasting color (red on blue). This makes it hard and annoying to read. A deep blue background with red and yellow links may look great on a preschool site but probably would not be best on a serious site such as a lawyers business site. Stick with black text unless you have a word or two that you would like to stand out.

Choose your colors wisely. Sticking with the colors in your logo or header is a sure winner. Adding a contrasting or a simple complementary color can help your web page look professional and appealing. Do not forget that your web site will make that first impression on visitors, so make sure it is a great one.

Designing a website? You will need a color palette in order to get the best design possible. The internet can now handle many color displays compared to the time just a few years ago when monitors only displayed 256 colors. Older computers will still use this color system. Some website designers prefer to stick with the options that 256 colors give them because it is easier than dealing with the thousands of colors now available to add to web pages.

Choosing colors from a color palette is rather simple. There are just a few things to consider. What mood are you wanting to convey? Do you want a muted website, with soft tones, complimentary and soothing colors? Or do you prefer a bright and striking site with contrasting colors? Choosing calming blues and greens will be viewed differently than choosing fiery reds and yellows. Take into consideration your company logo when designing your website. Selecting a color or a complimentary color from your logo will give your site a finished look.

What type of product are you selling or promoting? Will snow equipment really look good on a site with a black background and green writing? Try to choose complimentary colors that go with your product. Colors can also affect the mood of the website visitor so take into mind what mood you would like to display on your site. Calming blue is the most commonly used color on the web. Fiery red might be fun to use but is that the mood you want for your site?

Colors are a great way to make a statement. Use greens to sell gardening supplies, blues for fishing equipment and vibrant red for those hot chilis you grow. A color palette will help you when designing the perfect web site. Start with one main color and use it predominantly on your page. All other colors should be minimal and compliment the main color. Attracting more visitors to your site is what you want and keeping them there is what is necessary to be successful. Choose your colors wisely when designing your site. Stick to 3 colors if possible and no more than 5. Too many colors will just be distracting.

Using the 256 color palette will still enable you to choose complimentary, contrasting or triadic colors for your website. There may not be as many shades of color to choose from, but you should be able to find a complimentary color that comes close to the colors in your logo or heading. Choosing to use 3 to 5 of the colors found in the 256 color palette will ensure that older monitors can provide the same view that you have displayed. When it comes down to web safe colors, there are 22 that can be seen by all computers, new and old, pc and Mac. If you really want to play it safe, choose your colors from the 22 color palette and you can not go wrong.

Adding color text and other color elements to your web page is as simple as color by number. The use of hexadecimal coded colors will provide you with the ability to add a variety of colors to your web page. Learning more about how hexadecimal coded colors work will help you see how these codes can provide better web pages for you and your business. Adding color to your web page can provide you with a great way to grab attention from your visitors.

Using only a single color on your web page will create a bland page that will not help your visitors focus. Try adding a bright color to the most important sections of your page to bring the attention where you want it. Contrasting colors will work if used sparingly. Do not overwhelm your visitors by trying to use every shade of blue or by using every color in the rainbow. Learn more about hexadecimal coding and the ways it is best used to attract the right customers.

RGB stands for Red, Green and Blue. A hexadecimal color code will contain six characters (numbers/letters). Two characters will represent Red, two will represent Green and the final two will represent Blue. These characters will range from 00 to FF with 00 representing the least amount of color. A hexadecimal code of #FF0000 will represent the color Red since the two Fs are in the red column providing the most color from this section as possible. Ther green and blue sections have 0 color. To get a bluish-green color you will have 0 red and plenty of green and blue which will look like this in code: #00FFFF. These color by number codes are simple to use and can be changed to any shade or color you can imagine.

Text is not the only element on a web page that can use color by number codes. The background color can be changed by simply adding the html code . This will change your background to a solid green. Links are often blue in color but did you know that you can change the link to any color you would like? Use the code, for a bright magenta link. You can also add color to selected cells within a table, to headers, and have visited links change to another color.

You can brighten up any web page by using several colors of text. Try several combinations until you find what works best. Often a contrasting color will bring attention to your most important link. Do not use too many colors on one web page as that can be distracting and will not be as effective as a well planned web design. Once you have set the colors on your web page, ask viewers for comments. You may discover that some colors do not show up on some browsers and this will mean rethinking your web colors.

















































